When you first sit down to start writing code for a new idea or task,
it's easy to pay little attention to writing
good code and focus more on just getting it to work.
So, your code typically gets a little messy and repetitive at this stage of development.
This is okay.
It's hard to know what's the best way to write your code before it's finished.
For example, it could be difficult to know exactly what functions would best modularize
the steps in your code if you haven't experimented
enough with your code to understand what these steps are.
That's why you should always go back to do
some refactoring after you've achieved a working model.
Code refactoring is a term for restructuring your code to
improve its internal structure without changing its external functionality.
Refactoring gives you an opportunity to clean and
modularize your code after you've produced code that works.
In the short-term, you might see this as a waste of time,
since you could be moving on to the next feature.
However, allocating time to refactoring your code really
speeds up the time it will take you and your team to develop code in the long run.
Refactoring your code consistently not
only makes it much easier to come back to it later,
it also allows you to reuse parts for
different tasks and learn strong programming techniques along the way.
The more you practice refactoring your code,
the more intuitive it becomes.
You'll start to find yourself writing more organized code on your first pass,
with less to reorganize when you go back.
Let's take a look at a couple of examples and get some practice.